# Data Dictionary

* Is collection of tables and views that contain information about the database. 
* Created and maintained by Oracle Server. 
* Data Dictionary views are used by both Oracle Database and users like database administrators and application designers. 
* Data Dictionary views are read-only, no one can modify. 
* We used SQL statements to access data dictionary views.

#### What is there in Data Dictionary Views? 

- Definitions of objects of all schemas in a database(tables, views, functions, indexes..) 
- Names of all users. 
- Default values of columns. 
- Constraints information. 
- Privileges of users. 
- And many information about database. 

#### Difference Between USER, DBA, ALL, Vs prefixes. 

* There are many data dictionary views based on same tables, and sometimes same data. 
* In many cases there are 3 views containing similar information and distinguished from each other by their prefixes. 
* These prefixes are; USER, ALL, DBA prefixes. 
* USER Prefixes : Includes all the objects in user's schema. 
* ALL Prefixes   : Includes all the objects in user's schema and the objects that the user can access. 
* DBA Prefixes : Includes all the objects of all users. Only DBA's and users who have the privilege can access. 
* V$ Prefixes    : Includes views that have information about performance. Only DBA's and users who have the privilege can access. 

#### Some important dictionary tables/views are: -

- USER_OBJECTS : contains all the objects of a user.
- ALL_OBJECTS : all objects of  user and objects for which user has privilege,
- DBA_OBJECTS : all objects of all users including system objects, only DBA can access
- USER_TABLES : all tables, TAB synonym can be used
- USER_INDEXES : all indexes
- USER_TAB_COLS : all columns with their definitions, COLS synonym can be used
- USER_CONSTRAINTS : all information about constraints, columns like constraint type, index etcetera.
  - Constraint Types : C for Check, P for PK, R for Referential, U for Unique, V for With Check for views, O for read only for views
  - Delete Rule : CASCADE, SET NULL, NO ACTION
- USER_CATALOG : CAT synonym, just has table_name & table_type as columns, lists only tables, views, synonyms and sequences.
- USER_CONS_COLUMNS : all columns with constraints
- USER_TAB_COMMENTS : comments on tables
- USER_COL_COMMENTS : comments on columns
- USER_SEQUENCES : all info about sequences a user owns, LAST_NUMBER etcetera.
- USER_SYNONYMS :  synonyms



